# EOSA-NAS-Auto-CNN-Design-for-Digital-Histology-Images

The design and application of neural architecture to the challenge of detection of abnormalities in histopathologyimages can leverage on the field of neural architecture search (NAS). NAS models consist of a search space, searchstrategy   and   evaluation   strategy.   The   approach   supports   the   automation   of   DL-based   network   architectureengineering   by   finding   best   performing   network   on   a   certain   learning   problem   and   dataset.   However,   theengineering process of NAS is often limited by the potential solutions in search space and its search strategy. Thisproblem often narrows the possibility of obtaining best performing networks for very difficult task like using digitalhistopathological samples for detection of breast cancer. In this study, we propose methods for generating searchspace   and   search   strategy   to   improve   performance   of   neural   architecture   in   classification   of   histopathologicalimages. We designed a novel block-based stochastic categorical-to-binary (BSCB) algorithm for generating andencoding the search space. Also, we investigated the performance of a new optimization algorithm namely Ebolaoptimization search algorithm (EOSA) for the search strategy.  Experimentation was done using samples from theBACH and BreakHis databases to compute loss function, architecture latency and accuracy as an evaluation strategyin finding candidate architecture. We show that our approach was able to obtain best performing architectures withthe   top-5   yielding   significant   detection   rate.   The   candidate   neural   architecture   demonstrated   a   state-of-the-artperformance of 98% accuracy in detection of breast cancer in digital histopathology images. In conclusion, the NASstrategy applied in this study and the resulting candidate architecture provides researchers with understanding thenetwork configuration suitable for using digital histopathology.  
